---
layout: post
title: The Bystander Effect
date: 2015-11-03 07:42
comments: true
tags: november
---

Let's take a break from programming for a little bit and change tack. Thank god
I've got years worth of half-outlined blog posts which have been biding their
time, getting ready to strike.

Today I want to talk about my greatest shame.

A few years ago some of my rationalist friends and I were out for dinner,
talking about cognitive biases and saving the world from itself and all the
things we usually talked about. We met up once every week or two, so we were
pretty well-rehearsed in these conversations. In particular, we studied
cognitive biases. We were familiar with them all, and regularly had a
cognitive-bias-of-the-week to study and with which to familiarize ourselves.

As we left dinner on our way to the park to walk around, we came across a woman
passed out on the sidewalk. This was exceptionally peculiar, as we lived in a
city with no homeless population to speak of, and besides, she looked relatively
well-to-do.

We paused in our tracks. None of us knew what to do. We looked at one another.
Was this our responsibility? Maybe she was just napping[^1]. We (shudder)
ensured that she was still *breathing*, and then that was that. We walked away,
went on with our conversation, and didn't think about it again. Personally, I
didn't recall this memory until a few weeks ago.

[polyphasing]:

[^1]: As dumb as this sounds, most of us had practiced [polyphasic
sleep][polyphasing] in our past, where it is not particularly strange to find
yourself asleep in odd locales.

Yes, it's my biggest regret that we left that woman there, alone, unconscious on
the sidewalk. We could have helped her. Maybe somebody else did, but I doubt it.
The reason I doubt it is this: [the bystander effect][bystander]. If you're not
familiar with it, it goes something like this:

[bystander]:

> People are less likely to help others (or otherwise take action) if they are
> in a group.

You know that advice you were given as a kid, where if you were in trouble, you
should run into a crowded place, where surely -- they say -- you will be safe.
This actually turns out to be pretty *bad* advice, due to the bystander effect.
As a matter of fact, the chance of getting help is inversely related to the
number of bystanders present -- which is to say, the more crowded a place is,
the less likely you are to get help.

My friends and I **knew** about the bystander effect. It had been a
cognitive-bias-of-the-week. We even **knew** that *even when people know about
the bystander effect, they still won't help by default[^2]*. We **knew** all of
that, and we still didn't help this woman.

[^2]: I can't find my source for this, unfortunately.

I have no excuses for this behavior. I failed.

