---
layout: post
title: "sandy-runback"
date: 2015-07-21 11:07
comments: true
categories: category
---

I'm not normally much of the sentimental type, but today I found something [on
this day][otd] on Facebook that needed some commentary. Seven years ago, I
changed my name to Sandy Maguire. It was probably the best thing I've ever done.

[otd]: https://www.facebook.com/onthisday/?source=notification&notif_t=onthisday

<!--more-->

Let's recap quickly. I was born Alexander Maguire, and went by Alex for most of
my life. I never really liked the name Alex -- it was too common in my age group
(the 28th most popular name when I was born, and steadily working its way
towards the coveted #1 spot since.), but perhaps more damningly, I never
*identified* as an Alex. I'm not sure why. Unfortunately, as a child I lacked
the agency to do anything about this. I spent 18 years feeling vaguely
discontent about the whole state of affairs.

2008 came along. I graduated from high school. Most of my friends were leaving /
had left already to go to university, but I had decided to take a year off and
relax. Sadly, my records from back then are pretty sparse, but I'm relatively
certain Facebook had just unrolled their "Change your Name" feature. I clicked
on it, mostly as a joke, and typed in the first thing that came to mind.

"Sandy Maguire"

I liked the ring of it. But also I had just finished watching [The OC][oc],
where the adopted father of the main character is this radical dude named Sandy
Cohen who embodied all of the ideals I've ever admired. He's loyal,
kind-hearted, witty, and just a through-and-through good guy. He's a champion of
justice, protector of the weak, and is truly incorruptible. Also he has
fantastic eyebrows.

[oc]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_O.C.

!["You chose to name yourself after *me*?"](/images/sandy-runback/sandycohen.jpg)

It seemed like a fitting name. So I pressed *Enter* and made it official. I was
now Sandy Maguire. That was the easy part.

Changing your identity is *hard*^[citation needed]^, but I'm pretty sure it's
**much harder** to do it in a small town where you know or have heard an
embarrassing story about *literally* everyone your age. I had changed my name on
Facebook, but that day I learned that just because it's on Facebook doesn't make
it true.

It was weird. Most people simply **refused** to call me Sandy. "It's just a
phase," they'd say. "Fuck you," I'd reply, but quietly. I couldn't understand
it; who are these people to say what I can and can't be called? My name is what
*I* choose it to be.

This line of reasoning didn't fly, and so all of a sudden I found myself
alienated from most of the people I knew. Instead of being sad about it and
continuing to fight, I just found new people to be friends with and introduced
myself as Sandy. Problem solved. Over a period of two weeks, I had almost
churned my way through an entire social group.

Such an event was good for a few reasons: it served as a great filter for people
who respected my wishes, and (because very few people made it past that) gave me
a chance to reinvent my public persona. Lots of changes took place, but in
retrospect, one of the most important was that I stopped being afraid to take
chances to embarrass myself. Previously, I had kept many of my embarrassing
moments to myself, wanted to sustain the idea that I was "cool". I was afraid
people would stop liking me otherwise.

As a matter of fact, some people *did* start liking me, but now I knew how easy
it was to replace people. I realized that if people didn't like me, that was
their problem, not mine. Confidence: it's pretty good stuff.

Unfortunately, there are some people it's harder to replace. My parents were
pretty good about trying out my new name

