---
layout: post
title: A Letter to Myself
date: 2015-11-06 18:04
comments: true
tags: november, feels, effectiveness
---

One of the things I tried in 2013 as part of my [getting better at life][2013]
regiment was writing [letters][letters] to myself, both forwards in time and
backwards. The idea was to force some sense continuity to me across *time and
space*. Or at least time. I would write a letter to myself in the future,
detailing all of the things I wanted to achieve by then, and the things I
thought were going to be the most important to focus on. Fast forward a month,
and I'd read the letter in my temporal mailbox, reflect on it, and reply to
me-in-the-past, and start the thing all over again.

I only made it three months because once-a-month habits are hard habits to
build, but I fondly look back on this as one of my better ideas. I've always
meant to get back into the habit, and I'm really scraping for ideas to write
about today. So I'm going to try it. Expect heavy amounts of feels. Abort early
if you're uncomfortable with feels.

I'm not sure I can stretch out two letters to myself to the 2000 word mark, but
it's worth a try. To help me in this endeavor, I'm instead going to write out a
bunch of advice to myself that I wished I had had when I was 20. And should I
fail to hit my word mark, I can always phone it in and write a bullshit
programming essay later if I need to. I've got infinite amounts of those bad
boys in me.



##

Hey there bud. Congratulations on getting accepted into university! That's a big
move! Honestly mate, I was pretty worried about you for a while there; it felt
like you had lost both your ambition and your way. But good news, university is
going to be a nice clean break from your old life. You're free to reinvent
yourself as you please, and with no ties back to your old life, that will be
*who you are*. It's a big responsibility, to be honest. Spend some time thinking
about [the person you'd like to be][name]. It'll be worth your while, I promise.

There's... well, look, there's no good way to put this, but you're a man who
appreciates stark honesty. You're a cocky little prick. I know it feels like
you've made it big, but you've still got a long way to go. When you start
classes, it's going to become painfully obvious that you're ahead of the class,
but don't let it go to your head. Your skills are impressive for a first year,
but that doesn't mean you can afford to stop getting better. Your peers will
catch up with you much sooner than you'd expect -- they're all way smarter than
you give them credit for -- and you're going to be outpaced *very soon*. Ego
mate, that shit kills. If you feel like you're the smartest person in the room,
find another room. As quickly as you can.

People, man. Jesus. People are important. You've been able to get by on your
personal skills so far, but I chose those words carefully. You've been able to
"get by." Here are a couple tips: not everybody is going to like the same sides
of you. Get good at identifying quickly what people are looking for, and find a
side of you that aligns with that. But be genuine about it. Remember, this whole
"I am who I am" thing is [bullshit][lesson]. You're multifaceted as hell; we
both knot it. Read a book on how to get along with people. Hell, read two.
Really, you can't go overboard with this kind of thing.

I know, I know, it sounds like an adult position to hold, but school man, that
shit is good. It's really good. The first two years, well, I guess you can take
or leave them, but after that it gets really interesting. Pay attention when
you're there, you know, 'cause you're paying for it either way. You're right,
marks don't really matter in the big scheme of things, but there's something to
be said about walking out of a final exam knowing that you aced it. Knowledge is
power, as the clich&eacute; goes.

Oh, and while we're on the topic, clich&eacute;s are things for a reason. There
is a hugely compressed amount of knowledge to be found in them. Unfortunately,
this kind of thing is only really obvious in retrospect, but maybe keep your eye
on it, because paying attention pays its weight in gold. Which isn't very much,
if you think about it, but here's another piece of advice: nobody likes a smart
aleck.

Stop being so afraid to take chances! This is a hard one to learn, but really,
it's the secret to success. If you really want something, ask for it. Or take
it, for some definitions of "take". Pretty girl you want to go out with?
Historically, all the women you have wanted to taken out have wanted to be taken
out. You were just too shy to be the catalyst to make that happen. Want that job
you've always been dreaming about? Turns out that the biggest thing stopping you
is yourself. You never know what might happen if you apply. Spoilers: you'll get
it[^1]. Fortune favors the bold, playa.

[^1]: I hope this doesn't lead to some sort of temporal paradox, where I
convince myself to apply earlier-than-a-good-idea, fail to get my dream job, and
then never manage to go back in time to tell myself this due to overwhelming
depression.




[2013]:
[letters]: https://github.com/isovector/serenade/tree/master/Diaries/Time%20Capsule
[name]:
[lesson]:

